# BigInt for Value Representation

Date: 2023-07-28

Status: accepted

## Context

In the development of our software, we came across a decision point regarding
the representation of financial values in our system. We deal with traditional
currencies and also Bitcoin, which inherently requires support for a large
number of decimal places.

The system needs to be robust and accurate in dealing with all transactions,
both small and large, without risking precision or overflow errors. As we
studied the best practices in the financial tech industry, we noticed that
Stripe, a leading financial services company, uses integers to represent
monetary values. This approach ensures precision, avoiding the usual pitfalls of
floating-point arithmetic that could lead to inaccuracies in calculations.

However, unlike Stripe, our system is not limited to traditional currencies; we
also handle Bitcoin. This presents a unique challenge as Bitcoin values can
extend up to 8 decimal places and the total number of Bitcoins that will ever
exist is 21 million. Therefore, the system must be capable of accurately
handling these large values while also maintaining precision down to the Satoshi
level (0.00000001 Bitcoin).

## Decision

After careful consideration, we have decided to use BigInt for representing
values in our system. BigInt is a built-in object in JavaScript that provides a
way to represent whole numbers larger than 2^53 - 1, which is the largest number
JavaScript can reliably represent with the Number primitive.

This decision aligns with Stripe's reasoning to use integers to ensure accuracy
and precision, but it extends that reasoning to accommodate the demands of
Bitcoin transactions. Using BigInt will allow us to accurately and efficiently
represent values up to 2^64-1, which is far beyond the largest possible Bitcoin
value (2.1 quadrillion Satoshis, or 21 million Bitcoins).

Moreover, it will provide the necessary precision required for Bitcoin
transactions down to the Satoshi level. Given these requirements, the use of
BigInts provides the most logical and robust solution to our needs.

## Consequences

Adopting BigInt as our numerical representation has several impacts:

1. **Precision**: By using BigInt, we ensure the precision of calculations and
   eliminate the risk of overflow and rounding errors, which can be a
   significant concern in financial transactions, especially with Bitcoin.

2. **Performance**: Although BigInts can be slower than Numbers in JavaScript
   for small numerical values, the differences are negligible for our use case,
   and the added precision and overflow safety is worth the minor performance
   trade-off.

3. **Compatibility**: BigInt is well-supported in modern browsers, but it is not
   supported in Internet Explorer and some older versions of other browsers. We
   must ensure that this decision is compatible with our software's target
   platforms.

4. **Development and Maintenance**: Developers will need to familiarize
   themselves with BigInt and its usage. Additionally, care must be taken when
   mixing BigInts and Numbers in calculations, as JavaScript does not implicitly
   convert between the two.

Overall, we believe the use of BigInt will provide a significant net benefit to
our software by ensuring precise and reliable handling of all financial
transactions.
